docs(fx112-css-ray): Create new page for ray() function (#26266)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/ray/index.md

---
title: ray()
slug: Web/CSS/ray
page-type: css-function
browser-compat: css.types.ray
---

{{CSSRef}}

> The **`ray()`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) [function](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Functions) defines a line segment that begins from an [offset starting position](https://drafts.fxtf.org/motion/#offset-starting-position) and extends in the direction of the specified angle. The line segment is referred to as "ray". The length of a ray can be constrained by specifying a size.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`ray()`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) [function](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Functions) defines a line segment that begins from a starting position set by {{CSSXref("offset-position")}} and extending in the direction of the specified angle. The line segment is referred to as "ray". The length of a ray can be constrained by specifying a size and the keyword `contain`.
```

Author: I intentionally left out linking to `offset-position` page on MDN because the property is [currently not supported](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/offset-position#browser_compatibility) on any browser (and therefore not used in any example) but the concept is supported in calculations. I took cue from the [offset-position](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/offset-position) description that contains a link to spec's "initial position" definition to add a similar link here to a definition in the spec for the offset starting position.

    `closest-corner`: Specifies the length of the line segment as the distance between the ray's starting point and the closest corner in the element's containing block. If the starting point lies on a corner of the containing block, the length of the line segment is zero.

    `farthest-side`: Specifies the length of the line segment as the distance between the ray's starting point and the farthest side of the containing block of the element. If the starting point is outside the containing block, the edge of the containing block is considered to extend to infinity.

    `farthest-corner`: Specifies the length of the line segment as the distance between the ray's starting point and the farthest corner in the element's containing block.

    `sides`: Specifies the length of the line segment as the distance between the ray's starting point and the point where the line segment intersects the containing block's boundary. If the starting point is on or outside the containing block's boundary, the length of the line segment is zero.

- `contain`

>   - : Reduces the length of the line segment so that the element stays within the containing block even at `offset-distance: 100%`. Specifically, the segment's length is reduced by half the width or half the height of the element's border box, whichever is greater.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : Reduces the length of the line segment so that the element stays within the containing block even at `offset-distance: 100%`. Specifically, the segment's length is reduced to a maximum of half the width or half the height of the element's border box, whichever is greater.
```

## Examples

### Defining an angle for the ray

This example shows how an element's anchor point gets positioned initially at a ray's starting point and how the element gets oriented at the specified ray angle.

#### CSS

```css
.container {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-columns: 200px 100px;
}

.example {
  position: relative;
  margin: 1em 2em 4em 3em;
}

.box {
  display: inline-block;
  width: 3em;
  height: 3em;
  border: solid 0.05em;
  background-color: palegreen;
  border-top: 4px solid black;
}

.original {
  position: absolute;
  left: 0;
  opacity: 20%;
}

.box1 {
  offset-path: ray(0deg);
}

.box2 {
  offset-path: ray(0deg);

>   offset-anchor: 0px 0px;

Reviewer: Should we do `25%` on some? `px` is not needed for lengths of `0`, and many best practices suggest omitting them. This comment is for all the example boxes.

}

.box3 {
  offset-path: ray(150deg);
  offset-anchor: 0px 0px;
}

.box4 {
  offset-path: ray(150deg);
  offset-anchor: 0px 0px;
  offset-rotate: 0deg;
}
```

```html hidden
<div class="container">
  <div class="example">

>     <div class="box">&nbsp;</div>

Reviewer: instead of &nbsp;, write "box1" or "1" to make the examples easier to grok.

    <div class="box original">&nbsp;</div>
  </div>

  <pre>/* original */</pre>

  <div class="example">
    <div class="box box1">&nbsp;</div>
    <div class="box original">&nbsp;</div>
  </div>

  <pre>offset-path: ray(0deg);<br>/* box1 */<br>/* Default anchor point is at the center */<br>/* Default starting position is at the top-left corner */</pre>

  <div class="example">
    <div class="box box2">&nbsp;</div>
    <div class="box original">&nbsp;</div>
  </div>

  <pre>offset-path: ray(0deg);<br>offset-anchor: 0px 0px;<br>/* box2 */<br>/* Anchor point moves to the top-left corner */<br>/* Default starting position is at the top-left corner */</pre>

  <div class="example">
    <div class="box box3">&nbsp;</div>
    <div class="box original">&nbsp;</div>
  </div>

  <pre>offset-path: ray(150deg);<br>offset-anchor: 0px 0px;<br>/* box3 */</pre>

  <div class="example">
    <div class="box box4">&nbsp;</div>
    <div class="box original">&nbsp;</div>
  </div>

  <pre>offset-path: ray(150deg);<br>offset-anchor: 0px 0px;<br>offset-rotate: 0deg;<br>/* box4 */</pre>
</div>
```

> The default anchor point is at the center of an element, which can be modified using the [`offset-anchor`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/offset-distance) property. The default offset starting position of a path at is the top-left corner of the element box.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similar to {{cssxref("transform-origin")}}, the default anchor point is at the center of an element. This anchor point can be modified using the [`offset-anchor`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/offset-distance) property. The default offset starting position of a path at is the top-left corner of the element box.
```

body {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-columns: 200px 100px;
  gap: 40px;
}

.container {
   transform-style: preserve-3d;
   width: 150px;
   height: 100px;
   border: 2px dotted green;
}

.shape {
  width: 40px;
  height: 40px;
  position: relative;
  left: 10px;
  top: 5px;
  background: #2bc4a2;
  margin: 5px;
  clip-path: polygon(0% 0%, 70% 0%, 100% 50%, 70% 100%, 0% 100%, 30% 50%);
  offset-anchor: 0px 0px;
  animation: move 5000ms infinite alternate ease-in-out;
}

.shape2 {
  offset-path: ray(120deg sides contain);
}

.shape3 {
  offset-rotate: 0deg;
  offset-path: ray(120deg sides contain);
}

.shape4 {
  offset-path: ray(120deg closest-corner);
}

.shape5 {
  offset-path: ray(120deg farthest-corner);
}

@keyframes move {
  0% {
    offset-distance: 0%;
  }
  100% {
    offset-distance: 100%;
  }
```

#### HTML

```html
<div>
  <div class="container">
    <div class=" shape shape1"></div>
  </div>
</div>

<pre>/* no offset-path applied */</pre>

<div>
  <div class="container">
    <div class="shape shape2"></div>
  </div>
</div>

<pre>offset-path: ray(120deg sides contain);</pre>

<div>
  <div class="container">
    <div class="shape shape3"></div>
  </div>
</div>

> <pre>offset-path: ray(120deg sides contain);<br>offset-rotate: 0deg;</pre>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<pre>offset-path: ray(120deg sides contain);
offset-rotate: 0deg;</pre>
```

<div>
  <div class="container">
    <div class="shape shape4"></div>
  </div>
</div>

<pre>offset-path: ray(120deg closest-corner)</pre>

<div>
  <div class="container">
    <div class="shape shape5"></div>
  </div>
</div>

<pre>offset-path: ray(120deg farthest-corner)</pre>
</div>
```

#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample('Animating an element along the ray', '100%', 750)}}

> The first shape is shown as a reference for its position and orientation. A ray motion path is applied on the other shapes. In the first two `offset-path` samples, notice the orientation of the shape with and without `offset-rotate`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first shape is shown as a reference for its position and orientation. A ray motion path is applied on the other shapes. In the first two `offset-path` samples, notice the orientation of the shape with and without `offset-rotate`. The last two show the impact of size: `closest-corner` creates the a `0px` long offset path as the shape is already in the corner. The `farthest-corner` value creates the longest offset-path, going from the top left corner of the container to the bottom right corner in this case.
```

Reviewer: My version: I updated the example a bit: https://codepen.io/estelle/pen/XWxjzoQ
